#summary Explains how Pinax is handling media files from external apps and themes

==Overriding media defaults==

If you want to override default media files, place yours under
`<project_name>/media/...` with the same path. For example:

original file:
{{{
src/pinax/media/default/pianx/images/logo.png
}}}
your file:
{{{
<project_name>/media/pinax/images/logo.png
}}}

==Locations of media files==

If you want to use Pinax' media handling with your own Django apps, please make sure you put the media files (like JavaScript, stylesheets and images) in the following directory structure:

{{{
<app_name>/media/<app_name>/(js|img|css)
}}}

That "namespacing" is required to prevent name collision of media files while deploying.

Site specific media files goes to:
{{{
<project_name>/media/siteExample.js
}}}

The special static file service view should be able to serve the media files in development.

==build_media managment command==

The build_media script should be able to collect the media files from Pinax
and all the apps and arrange them under the `<project_name>/site_media` folder.

The command:

{{{
<project_name>/python manage.py build_media
}}}
will collect the media files from Pinax and all the apps and places them in
the `site_media` folder.

If you have two apps with the same file and the same relative path it's advised to use the --interactive option so the script will prompt you to choose which one to use. This is useful in case you want to overwrite default media files with your custom app for example. Remember to remove the site_media folder before you use this option or the script will prompt you for each file.

Please also refer to the help of the build_media management command by running

{{{
<project_name>/python manage.py build_media --help
}}}