#summary Release notes for Pinax releases

= Pinax Release Notes =

These are the release notes for each release of Pinax. Ordered latest releases first.

== 0.5.1 ==

The 0.5.1 release brings various bug fixes and more stability to Pinax. We have fixed some bugs and improved the documentation. This release should be backward compatible, exception where noted.

=== Python 2.4 support ===

0.5.1 brings Python 2.4 compatibility. There are still many distributions out there that have Python 2.4 as the default Python version.

=== Removal of Pownce support ===

Pownce closed their doors on December 15, 2008 after being bought by Six Apart. There is no longer any reason we should support Pownce.

You may need to remove some Pownce bits from your templates if you forked from the complete_project locally.

=== Various bug-fixes ===

 * [http://code.pinaxproject.com/codebases/codebase/pinax/changesets/1292/ r1292] Fixed a bug in django_openidconsumer that prevented login on some deployments
 * [http://code.pinaxproject.com/codebases/codebase/pinax/changesets/1288/ r1288] Removed an import that was never used in profiles/views.py.
 * [http://code.pinaxproject.com/codebases/codebase/pinax/changesets/1266/ r1266] Fixed a typo of ValidationError in apps/local_apps/account/forms.py.
 * [http://code.pinaxproject.com/codebases/codebase/pinax/changesets/1215/ r1215] Issue #119 Added a missing import in apps/local_apps/misc/utils.py.
 * [http://code.pinaxproject.com/codebases/codebase/pinax/changesets/1215/ r1193] Added the about app to the basic_project INSTALLED_APPS list.