#summary what we've achieved in this sprint

== common templates directory ==

Templates that are common (or potentially common) between projects have now been moved out of projects all together and put under /templates/default/

See /templates/README for more detail

In the process of doing this, some template inconsistencies were also addressed.

This will also reduce duplication during the conversion from tables->divs and use of uni-form.

== Removing django-things ==

In light of the recent breakages, and at the author's suggestion, the use of django-things was removed during the course of the sprint.

== Externals Apps Can Now Be Used With distutils / setuptools / pip ==

There are now basic requirement files for most of the apps and libs that will soon be used to create project requirement files. Made sure every app used has a valid setup.py. Assisted in adding a lot of setup.py files.

== Common Media Directory ==

In preparation for moving common media files to a common directory we've added a build_media management command that traverses app, common and project media dirs to build a site_media directory. There is also a view for serving static files during development that nows where to look for the files.

== Partial Work on New Groups Apps ==

Tasks have been broken out as their own app (currenty just under intranet_project) They currently only work at top level but will soon work with any group.

A new (temporary) project called temp_group_project has a basic group app and will soon have replaces for tribes and projects.

== Partial Work on New Account Apps ==

A new app, waitinglist, can be used for sites not yet launched to collect email address of people to notify when the site launches (or to invite those people to a private beta)

A new project called private_beta_project has the beginnings of code that will enable signup only with a signup code and will provide the throttling of user-handout of invitations.

== Schedule Integration ==

== Pages ==

